P3. Final ERD.md, before:

# P3 Final ERD

## Business Rules

- A `User` is a Facebook user. 
- Admin is not buyer/seller he is just an employee
- A user can be a seller or a buyer.
- A user can publish multiple ad_items. The publisher of an ad_item is the seller.
- The bidder of an ad_item is the buyer. A buyer can bid on multiple ad_items. 
- A buyer can receive multiple alerts on ad_item when seller post and ad_item.
- A user can have at most one watchlist.
- A watchlist can have multiple items. Where watch list is to observe the ad_item status and take action to bid or not to bid by the buyer.
- A buyer may give feedback on multiple ad_items.
- An ad_item can get feedback from multiple buyers.
- A buyer may chat with multiple sellers.
- A seller may chat with multiple buyers.
- A seller can block multiple buyers.
- An Auction can have multiple bids.
- An Ad_item may have multiple auctions.
- Every Ad_item has status. Like, Active, Sold, Withdrawn, etc,
- A bid must have a status. Like, Active, Won, Lost, etc.
- Every bid must have a timestamp associated with it.
- An ad_item may have auctions in the past but, it must have at most one auction at a time.
- The auction must have a start time and end time.
- Every auction must have a base price. The bid price must be above the auction base price.
- The seller can also set the buy now price on the auction. The buy now price is the price at which the seller is willing to sell the item immediately.
- The buynow price is always greater than the reserve price.
- The buyer cannot bid the amount greater than the buynow price.
- If the buyer bids the buy now price, the auction ends immediately.
- An admin reviews the ad_item and can remove the ad_item if the admin finds the ad_item is violating the Facebook policies.

> Note: Admin is not buyer/seller he is just a facebook employee. So, the admin is mentioned as a separate relation with limited context to limit the project scope.

## Final ERD

![Final ERD](<p3-assignment.jpg>)

Commit message:

add updates to the inital ERD

P3. Final ERD.md, after:

# P3 Final ERD

## Updates to the initial ERD.

1. Add Consistent business rules.
2. Removed all many-to-many relationships.
3. All the entities are in the 3NF.
4. Associate Entities are added.
5. Renamed ambiguous entity name(Ad to Ad_Item) and followed naming conventions for entity attributes.
6. Added the need for auction and ad_item and described the relationship between them.
7. Admin is not a buyer/seller he is just a Facebook employee. So, the admin is mentioned as a separate relation with limited context to limit the project scope.
8. Ad_item  auction has one-many relations as an item can have many auctions.
9. One auction can have multiple bids.
10. A watchlist can have multiple items. Where the watch list is to observe the ad_item status and take action to bid or not to bid by the buyer.
11. Maintained referential integrity among entities.


## Business Rules

- A `User` is a Facebook user. 
- Admin is not buyer/seller he is just an employee
- A user can be a seller or a buyer.
- A user can publish multiple ad_items. The publisher of an ad_item is the seller.
- The bidder of an ad_item is the buyer. A buyer can bid on multiple ad_items. 
- A buyer can receive multiple alerts on ad_item when seller post and ad_item.
- A user can have at most one watchlist.
- A watchlist can have multiple items. Where watch list is to observe the ad_item status and take action to bid or not to bid by the buyer.
- A buyer may give feedback on multiple ad_items.
- An ad_item can get feedback from multiple buyers.
- A buyer may chat with multiple sellers.
- A seller may chat with multiple buyers.
- A seller can block multiple buyers.
- An Auction can have multiple bids.
- An Ad_item may have multiple auctions.
- Every Ad_item has status. Like, Active, Sold, Withdrawn, etc,
- A bid must have a status. Like, Active, Won, Lost, etc.
- Every bid must have a timestamp associated with it.
- An ad_item may have auctions in the past but, it must have at most one auction at a time.
- The auction must have a start time and end time.
- Every auction must have a base price. The bid price must be above the auction base price.
- The seller can also set the buy now price on the auction. The buy now price is the price at which the seller is willing to sell the item immediately.
- The buynow price is always greater than the reserve price.
- The buyer cannot bid the amount greater than the buynow price.
- If the buyer bids the buy now price, the auction ends immediately.
- An admin reviews the ad_item and can remove the ad_item if the admin finds the ad_item is violating the Facebook policies.

> Note: Admin is not buyer/seller he is just a facebook employee. So, the admin is mentioned as a separate relation with limited context to limit the project scope.

## Final ERD

![Final ERD](<p3-assignment.jpg>)
